Identity CRUD Implementation Concepts (#45)
openid/ipsie: ipsie-terminology.md

The identity service is where the users' access to applications and other resources is managed and enforced.

### Identity CRUD Implementation Concepts

> To understand and explain Identity CRUD implementations we need to define the terminology by defining the follow concepts: Identity CRUD Data Models, Identity CRUD Protocol Roles, Identity CURD Orchestrator Roles, Identity CURD Triggers, and Identity CURD Actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand and explain Identity CRUD implementations we need to define the terminology by defining the following concepts: Identity CRUD Data Models, Identity CRUD Protocol Roles, Identity CRUD Orchestrator Roles, Identity CRUD Triggers, and Identity CRUD Actions.
```

#### Identity CRUD Data Models
Identities are defined by two types of data entities: Resources and Attributes.
##### Resource Object (RO)

> A JSON object representing a user, group, or an extension object like devices, used by CRUD operations. The Resource Object contains attributes defined by schemas.

Reviewer 2: I recommend dropping "JSON" and just calling it an object since this is protocol agnostic.

Reviewer 2: I've made the edits.  Resolving.

##### Resource Attribute (RA)
A named element of a Resource Object (RO). It includes characteristics like cardinality (single or multiple values), data types (string, boolean, binary, etc.), and properties (required, unique, etc.).

#### Identity CRUD Protocol Roles
These roles are generally implemented based on the HTTP protocol, where client and server roles are defined in [RFC9110] and [RFC9112].
##### Server (also known as a Service Provider)

> An HTTP web application that provides identity information. The server is a RESTful API endpoint offering access to a data model that can be used to push or pull data between two parties. Servers have additional responsibilities, such as API security, managing client identifiers and keys, and performance management, including API throttling.

Reviewer 2: This might be considered SCIM-specific. I'm not aware of other standard protocols for exchanging identity information cross-domain that are in common use.

Author: agree, I was strugling with this one .... mayeb we just remove the section of protocol roles ?

Reviewer 2: That is probably the easiest path.
